README.md, before:

# GigaDB

[![pipeline status](https://gitlab.com/gigascience/upstream/gigadb-website/badges/develop/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.com/gigascience/forks/gigadb-website/commits/develop)
[![coverage report](https://gitlab.com/gigascience/upstream/gigadb-website/badges/develop/coverage.svg)](https://gitlab.com/gigascience/forks/gigadb-website/commits/develop)

## What is it?

[GigaDB](http://gigadb.org) is a database which provides information
about datasets associated with scientific papers published in
[GigaScience](http://gigascience.biomedcentral.com). Links to these
datasets are also available from GigaDB. The datasets are
freely-accessible and can be obtained from a file server hosted by
[BGI](http://www.genomics.cn/en/index).

This repository contains the source code for running the [GigaDB](http://gigadb.org)
website. This current release is version 3.1.

## Installation

### Requirements

* Docker (version 18 or more recent) is [installed](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) 
on your machine (Windows or macOS)
* You have a [GitLab account](https://gitlab.com/), which is a member of the 
[Gigascience Forks group](https://gitlab.com/gigascience/forks), so you can 
access the application's [secret variables](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/README.html)
* You have generated a [personal access token](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html) 
from your GitLab user settings so your local setup can access the secret 
variables
* You have git cloned the [gigascience/gigadb-website](https://github.com/gigascience/gigadb-website)
project locally under `gigadb-website`


### Getting started in 3 steps

**(1)** To setup the web application locally, do the following:

```
$ cd gigadb-website                         # your cloned git repository for Gigadb website
$ git checkout develop                      # the branch with the latest code base
$ cp ops/configuration/variables/env-sample .env    # ensure GITLAB_PRIVATE_TOKEN is set, as well as <Your fork name here>
$ docker-compose run --rm config            # generate the configuration using variables in .env, GitLab, then exit

```

>**Note 1**: A `.secrets` file will be created automatically and populated using 
secrets variables stored in GitLab.

>**Note 2**: If you are not a member of the Gigascience's Forks GitLab group, 
you will have to provide your own values for the necessary variables using 
`ops/configuration/variables/secrets-sample` as a starting point:
>```
>$ cp ops/configuration/variables/secrets-sample .secrets
>$ vi .secrets
>```


**(2)** To install PHP Composer dependencies and start the PHP webapp, run the following commands:

```
$ docker-compose up -d --build gigadb            # start php-fpm and postgresql containers, install php dependencies
$ docker-compose run --rm less              # generate site.css from less/site.less
```


The **gigadb** container will run composer update using the `composer.json` 
generated in the previous step, and will launch two containers named
**application** and **database**, then it will exit. It's ok to run the command 
repeatedly.

**(3)** Start the web server

Starting the web container will first enable site configuration connecting nginx to gigadb PHP application server before starting the web server as a deamon.

```
$ docker-compose up -d web                  # Start the web server
```

Upon success, three services should now be started in detached mode.
You can then navigate to the website at: [http://gigadb.gigasciencejournal.com:9170/](http://gigadb.gigasciencejournal.com:9170/)


>**Note**: The first time (or when using ``--build``, as explained below), it will take longer to start the services as the 
**application** and **web** containers need to be built first.

#### About the ``--build`` argument

The ``--build`` argument (to force-build containers) is required :

* after changing their Dockerfile 
* after making changes to the ``.env`` file
* after switching/merging git branches with either of the above conditions

to ensure the containers (**application**, **web**, and **test**) are built from the expected local development files due to lingering prior running version of the containers. 

Avoiding using it when not necessary will speed up container startup by not building them again. Even if not used, the containers will still automatically go through the build process the very first time or after the container image has been deleted.

### Running database migrations

Some code changes are database schemas changes. You will need to run Yii migration to create postgresql database used by GigaDB as follows:
```
# Create schema tables
$ docker-compose run --rm  application ./protected/yiic migrate --migrationPath=application.migrations.schema --interactive=0
# Create migration scripts for uploading data
$ docker-compose up csv-to-migrations
# Upload data into tables
$ docker-compose run --rm  application ./protected/yiic migrate --migrationPath=application.migrations.data.dev --interactive=0
```

### Configuration variables

The project can be configured using *deployment variables* managed in `.env`, 
*application variables* managed in the [docker-compose.yml](ops/deployment/docker-compose.yml) 
file and its overrides (`docker-compose.*.yml`). Finally, passwords, api keys 
and tokens are managed as *secret variables* in `.secrets`.


## Testing GigaDB 

Make sure the test container is built if it's the first time or if the Dockerfile and/or the ``.env`` file have changed to ensure the container uses the correct development files.

```
$ docker-compose build test
```

### Using convenience test runners:

```
$ ./tests/unit_runner         # run all the unit tests after ensuring test DB migrations are up-to-date
$ ./tests/functional_runner   # run all the functional tests after ensuring DB migrations are up-to-date
$ docker-compose up -d chrome  # start a headless web browser
$ ./tests/acceptance_runner local # run all the acceptance tests (see important note below)
$ ./tests/coverage_runner     # run test coverage, print report and submit to coveralls.io
```

>**Note**: those runners are just ``bash`` wrappers to ``docker-compose run`` commands that you are free to use directly. You will want to do that if you want to tweak the test suite execution (see below).

### How to run a subset of a test suite?

#### For unit tests

You can specify the specific test file you want to run:

```
$ docker-compose run --rm test ./bin/phpunit --testsuite unit --bootstrap protected/tests/unit_bootstrap.php --verbose --configuration protected/tests/phpunit.xml --no-coverage protected/tests/unit/DatasetDAOTest.php
```

#### For functional tests

You can specify the specific test file you want to run:

```
$ docker-compose run --rm test ./bin/phpunit --testsuite functional --bootstrap protected/tests/functional_custom_bootstrap.php --verbose --configuration protected/tests/phpunit.xml --no-coverage protected/tests/functional/SiteTest.php
```

#### For Acceptance tests

three methods are available and they can all be combined together

##### using filename

You specify a feature file to run:

To run the tests:
```
$ docker-compose run --rm test bin/behat --profile local --stop-on-failure features/dataset-admin.feature
```

##### using tags

You can pass tags as arguments to run all scenarios that have these tags in any feature file.

```
$ docker-compose run --rm test bin/behat --profile local --stop-on-failure --tags @login
```

##### using line numbers

You can specify the line number in a feature file where the text of a scenario starts to just run that scenario.

```
$ docker-compose run --rm test bin/behat --profile local --stop-on-failure features/dataset-admin.feature:76
```

## Troubleshooting

To access the services logs, use the command below:

```
$ docker-compose logs <service name>            # e.g: docker-compose logs web
```

You can get information on the images, services and the processes running in 
them with these commands:

```
$ docker-compose images
$ docker-compose ps
$ docker-compose top
```

To debug the configuration or the tests, you can drop into `bash` with both 
containers:

```
$ docker-compose run --rm config bash
```

or:

```
$ docker-compose run --rm test bash
```

Both containers have access to the application source files, the Yii framework 
and Nginx site configuration (so they can be used to debug the running web 
application too).

The **test** container has also the PostgreSQL admin tools installed (pg\_dump, 
pg\_restore, psql), so it's a good place for debugging database issues. For
example, to access the PostgreSQL database from the **test** container:

```
# Drop into bash in test container
$ docker-compose run --rm test bash
# Use psql in test container to connect to gigadb database in database container
root@16b04afd18d5:/var/www# psql -h database -p 5432 -U gigadb gigadb
``` 

The test database in the locally-deployed GigaDB application can be populated 
with production-like data as follows:

```
# Drop into bash in the test container
$ docker-compose run --rm test bash
# Access the postgres database using `vagrant` as the password
bash-4.4# psql -h database -p 5432 -U gigadb postgres
Password for user gigadb: 
psql (9.4.21)
Type "help" for help.

postgres=# select pg_terminate_backend(pg_stat_activity.pid) from pg_stat_activity where datname='gigadb';
 pg_terminate_backend 
----------------------
 t
 t
 t
 t
 t
(5 rows)

postgres=# drop database gigadb;
DROP DATABASE
postgres=# create database gigadb owner gigadb;
CREATE DATABASE
postgres-# \q
# Restore the `production_like.pgdmp` database
root@9aece9101f03:/var/www# pg_restore -h database -p 5432 -U gigadb -d gigadb -v ./sql/production_like.pgdmp 
```

>**Note:**
>~~Only~~ The **test** and **application** containers have access to the 
**database** container. In addition, you can access the PostgreSQL RDBMS in the 
database container via the local dockerhost on port 54321. For example, you can
use [pgAdmin](https://www.pgadmin.org) to connect to the gigadb PostgreSQL 
database:

**1.** Click on `Add New Server` and provide a `Name` for the connection in the 
`General` tab.

**2.** Click on the `Connection` tab and enter `localhost` as the `Host name/address` 
and `54321` as the `Port` value. The `Maintenance database` is `gigadb`,  
`username` is `gigadb`, and `password` is `vagrant`.

For further investigation, check out the [docker-compose.yml](ops/deployment/docker-compose.yml) 
to see how the services are assembled and what scripts they run.

## Life cycle

To regenerate the web application configuration files, *e.g.* because a variable 
is added or changed on GitLab or `.env`:

```
$ docker-compose run --rm config
```

To restart, start or stop any of the services:

```
$ docker-compose restart|start|stop <service name>	# e.g: docker-compose restart database
```

To rebuild the local containers (**application** and **test**), e.g: because of 
changes made to the [Dockerfile](ops/packaging/Dockerfile) or because the base 
image has been upgraded (see below):

```
$ docker-compose build <service name>				# e.g: docker-compose build application
```

To tear down all the services (the project data at location pointed at by 
DATA\_SAVE\_PATH *deployment variable* are unaffected):

```
$ docker-compose down
```

To upgrade the images used by the services (including base images for local 
containers) to the latest version of a fixed tag, without restarting the 
services:

```
$ docker-compose pull
```

>**Note**:
>To upgrade the core software to major revision, first change the version 
*deployment variables* in `.env`.

## Generating the documentation

Install mkdocs. On mac you can use brew:

```
$ brew install mkdocs
```

Otherwise you can use Python pip:

```
pip install mkdocs
```

To start the server, from this project root directory, run the command:

```
$ mkdocs serve
```

the documentation will be available at: (http://127.0.0.1:8000)


### PHPDocs


To update the browsable API Docs (PHPDoc), run the command below and then commit 
the changes:
```
$ docker-compose run --rm test ./docs/make_phpdoc
```

## Licensing

Please see the file called [LICENSE](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

Correct the up.sh startup script to include all setup and startup steps
Upon code checkout, up.sh can now be run to cover all setup and startup steps.

Updated the doc accordingly.

Also removed the binary postgresql dump from repo, as it generated in deployment
and already gitignored.

Also ensure git is installed in Docker images used by FUW as one of the Composer dependency
(Email/Parse) use git as a download method.

README.md, after:

# GigaDB

[![pipeline status](https://gitlab.com/gigascience/upstream/gigadb-website/badges/develop/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.com/gigascience/forks/gigadb-website/commits/develop)
[![coverage report](https://gitlab.com/gigascience/upstream/gigadb-website/badges/develop/coverage.svg)](https://gitlab.com/gigascience/forks/gigadb-website/commits/develop)

## What is it?

[GigaDB](http://gigadb.org) is a database which provides information
about datasets associated with scientific papers published in
[GigaScience](http://gigascience.biomedcentral.com). Links to these
datasets are also available from GigaDB. The datasets are
freely-accessible and can be obtained from a file server hosted by
[BGI](http://www.genomics.cn/en/index).

This repository contains the source code for running the [GigaDB](http://gigadb.org)
website. This current release is version 3.1.

## Installation

### Requirements

* Docker (version 18 or more recent) is [installed](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) 
on your machine (Windows or macOS)
* You have a [GitLab account](https://gitlab.com/), which is a member of the 
[Gigascience Forks group](https://gitlab.com/gigascience/forks), so you can 
access the application's [secret variables](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/README.html)
* You have generated a [personal access token](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html) 
from your GitLab user settings so your local setup can access the secret 
variables
* You have git cloned the [gigascience/gigadb-website](https://github.com/gigascience/gigadb-website)
project locally under `gigadb-website`

### Get started quickly

```
$ cd gigadb-website
$ ./up.sh
```

### Detailed instructions to set up and start the applications

>**Note 0**: You can also read, pick and choose the steps in ``up.sh``


**(1)** To setup the web application locally, do the following:

```
$ cd gigadb-website                         # your cloned git repository for Gigadb website
$ git checkout develop                      # the branch with the latest code base
$ cp ops/configuration/variables/env-sample .env    # ensure GITLAB_PRIVATE_TOKEN is set, as well as <Your fork name here>
$ docker-compose run --rm config            # generate the configuration using variables in .env, GitLab, then exit

```

>**Note 1**: A `.secrets` file will be created automatically and populated using 
secrets variables stored in GitLab.

>**Note 2**: If you are not a member of the Gigascience's Forks GitLab group, 
you will have to provide your own values for the necessary variables using 
`ops/configuration/variables/secrets-sample` as a starting point:
>```
>$ cp ops/configuration/variables/secrets-sample .secrets
>$ vi .secrets
>```


**(2)** To install PHP Composer dependencies and start the PHP webapp, run the following commands:

```
$ docker-compose up -d --build gigadb            # start php-fpm and postgresql containers, install php dependencies
$ docker-compose run --rm less              # generate site.css from less/site.less
```


The **gigadb** container will run composer update using the `composer.json` 
generated in the previous step, and will launch two containers named
**application** and **database**, then it will exit. It's ok to run the command 
repeatedly.

**(3)** Start the web server

Starting the web container will first enable site configuration connecting nginx to gigadb PHP application server before starting the web server as a deamon.

```
$ docker-compose up -d web                  # Start the web server
```

Upon success, three services should now be started in detached mode.
You can then navigate to the website at: [http://gigadb.gigasciencejournal.com:9170/](http://gigadb.gigasciencejournal.com:9170/)


>**Note**: The first time (or when using ``--build``, as explained below), it will take longer to start the services as the 
**application** and **web** containers need to be built first.

#### About the ``--build`` argument

The ``--build`` argument (to force-build containers) is required :

* after changing their Dockerfile 
* after making changes to the ``.env`` file
* after switching/merging git branches with either of the above conditions

to ensure the containers (**application**, **web**, and **test**) are built from the expected local development files due to lingering prior running version of the containers. 

Avoiding using it when not necessary will speed up container startup by not building them again. Even if not used, the containers will still automatically go through the build process the very first time or after the container image has been deleted.

### Running database migrations

Some code changes are database schemas changes. You will need to run Yii migration to create postgresql database used by GigaDB as follows:
```
# Create schema tables
$ docker-compose run --rm  application ./protected/yiic migrate --migrationPath=application.migrations.schema --interactive=0
# Create migration scripts for uploading data
$ docker-compose up csv-to-migrations
# Upload data into tables
$ docker-compose run --rm  application ./protected/yiic migrate --migrationPath=application.migrations.data.dev --interactive=0
```

### Configuration variables

The project can be configured using *deployment variables* managed in `.env`, 
*application variables* managed in the [docker-compose.yml](ops/deployment/docker-compose.yml) 
file and its overrides (`docker-compose.*.yml`). Finally, passwords, api keys 
and tokens are managed as *secret variables* in `.secrets`.


## Testing GigaDB 

Make sure the test container is built if it's the first time or if the Dockerfile and/or the ``.env`` file have changed to ensure the container uses the correct development files.

```
$ docker-compose build test
```

### Using convenience test runners:

```
$ ./tests/unit_runner         # run all the unit tests after ensuring test DB migrations are up-to-date
$ ./tests/functional_runner   # run all the functional tests after ensuring DB migrations are up-to-date
$ docker-compose up -d chrome  # start a headless web browser
$ ./tests/acceptance_runner local # run all the acceptance tests (see important note below)
$ ./tests/coverage_runner     # run test coverage, print report and submit to coveralls.io
```

>**Note**: those runners are just ``bash`` wrappers to ``docker-compose run`` commands that you are free to use directly. You will want to do that if you want to tweak the test suite execution (see below).

### How to run a subset of a test suite?

#### For unit tests

You can specify the specific test file you want to run:

```
$ docker-compose run --rm test ./bin/phpunit --testsuite unit --bootstrap protected/tests/unit_bootstrap.php --verbose --configuration protected/tests/phpunit.xml --no-coverage protected/tests/unit/DatasetDAOTest.php
```

#### For functional tests

You can specify the specific test file you want to run:

```
$ docker-compose run --rm test ./bin/phpunit --testsuite functional --bootstrap protected/tests/functional_custom_bootstrap.php --verbose --configuration protected/tests/phpunit.xml --no-coverage protected/tests/functional/SiteTest.php
```

#### For Acceptance tests

three methods are available and they can all be combined together

##### using filename

You specify a feature file to run:

To run the tests:
```
$ docker-compose run --rm test bin/behat --profile local --stop-on-failure features/dataset-admin.feature
```

##### using tags

You can pass tags as arguments to run all scenarios that have these tags in any feature file.

```
$ docker-compose run --rm test bin/behat --profile local --stop-on-failure --tags @login
```

##### using line numbers

You can specify the line number in a feature file where the text of a scenario starts to just run that scenario.

```
$ docker-compose run --rm test bin/behat --profile local --stop-on-failure features/dataset-admin.feature:76
```

## Troubleshooting

To access the services logs, use the command below:

```
$ docker-compose logs <service name>            # e.g: docker-compose logs web
```

You can get information on the images, services and the processes running in 
them with these commands:

```
$ docker-compose images
$ docker-compose ps
$ docker-compose top
```

To debug the configuration or the tests, you can drop into `bash` with both 
containers:

```
$ docker-compose run --rm config bash
```

or:

```
$ docker-compose run --rm test bash
```

Both containers have access to the application source files, the Yii framework 
and Nginx site configuration (so they can be used to debug the running web 
application too).

The **test** container has also the PostgreSQL admin tools installed (pg\_dump, 
pg\_restore, psql), so it's a good place for debugging database issues. For
example, to access the PostgreSQL database from the **test** container:

```
# Drop into bash in test container
$ docker-compose run --rm test bash
# Use psql in test container to connect to gigadb database in database container
root@16b04afd18d5:/var/www# psql -h database -p 5432 -U gigadb gigadb
``` 

The test database in the locally-deployed GigaDB application can be populated 
with production-like data as follows:

```
# Drop into bash in the test container
$ docker-compose run --rm test bash
# Access the postgres database using `vagrant` as the password
bash-4.4# psql -h database -p 5432 -U gigadb postgres
Password for user gigadb: 
psql (9.4.21)
Type "help" for help.

postgres=# select pg_terminate_backend(pg_stat_activity.pid) from pg_stat_activity where datname='gigadb';
 pg_terminate_backend 
----------------------
 t
 t
 t
 t
 t
(5 rows)

postgres=# drop database gigadb;
DROP DATABASE
postgres=# create database gigadb owner gigadb;
CREATE DATABASE
postgres-# \q
# Restore the `production_like.pgdmp` database
root@9aece9101f03:/var/www# pg_restore -h database -p 5432 -U gigadb -d gigadb -v ./sql/production_like.pgdmp 
```

>**Note:**
>~~Only~~ The **test** and **application** containers have access to the 
**database** container. In addition, you can access the PostgreSQL RDBMS in the 
database container via the local dockerhost on port 54321. For example, you can
use [pgAdmin](https://www.pgadmin.org) to connect to the gigadb PostgreSQL 
database:

**1.** Click on `Add New Server` and provide a `Name` for the connection in the 
`General` tab.

**2.** Click on the `Connection` tab and enter `localhost` as the `Host name/address` 
and `54321` as the `Port` value. The `Maintenance database` is `gigadb`,  
`username` is `gigadb`, and `password` is `vagrant`.

For further investigation, check out the [docker-compose.yml](ops/deployment/docker-compose.yml) 
to see how the services are assembled and what scripts they run.

## Life cycle

To regenerate the web application configuration files, *e.g.* because a variable 
is added or changed on GitLab or `.env`:

```
$ docker-compose run --rm config
```

To restart, start or stop any of the services:

```
$ docker-compose restart|start|stop <service name>	# e.g: docker-compose restart database
```

To rebuild the local containers (**application** and **test**), e.g: because of 
changes made to the [Dockerfile](ops/packaging/Dockerfile) or because the base 
image has been upgraded (see below):

```
$ docker-compose build <service name>				# e.g: docker-compose build application
```

To tear down all the services (the project data at location pointed at by 
DATA\_SAVE\_PATH *deployment variable* are unaffected):

```
$ docker-compose down
```

To upgrade the images used by the services (including base images for local 
containers) to the latest version of a fixed tag, without restarting the 
services:

```
$ docker-compose pull
```

>**Note**:
>To upgrade the core software to major revision, first change the version 
*deployment variables* in `.env`.

## Generating the documentation

Install mkdocs. On mac you can use brew:

```
$ brew install mkdocs
```

Otherwise you can use Python pip:

```
pip install mkdocs
```

To start the server, from this project root directory, run the command:

```
$ mkdocs serve
```

the documentation will be available at: (http://127.0.0.1:8000)


### PHPDocs


To update the browsable API Docs (PHPDoc), run the command below and then commit 
the changes:
```
$ docker-compose run --rm test ./docs/make_phpdoc
```

## Licensing

Please see the file called [LICENSE](./LICENSE).
